# Recommendation-System

When you search for a holiday on Google, you get sponsored results showing products that travel companies think you will want to buy and which they happen to sell. Unlikely to get the best or the cheapest holiday recommendations. Unlikely to match your requirements. The alternative is to pay a travel agent, which is expensive. Or do your holiday planning, which takes lots of time, requires visiting multiple websites, etc.
A system was built to address this problem that generates sponsored ‘ads’ based on the user’s preferences and travel dates. This enables the user to get the best holiday working across different travel service providers. The main feature of the recommendations system is to generate recommendations based on user profiles using a Chrome plugin that will monitor if the users are looking for holidays. These recommendations are injected into the page with a similar appearance to the sponsored links.
The implementation was done using Amazon Web Services using different services such as API Gateway, Lambda, Cognito and DynamoDB. Different APIs were used to collect the data such as Google Maps API, Amadeus API and OpenWeather API. The system uses the DynamoDB geo library to query for locations based on coordinates. Different tests were conducted as UI testing using CSS validators and API testing to ensure a pleasant user experience without errors.
As future work I would like to implement new features such as AWS Elastic MapReduce (which allows to break down a bigger task in smaller tasks to process the data and after combine the results, this will help with breaking down bigger maps in 10 km squares more efficient and cost effective), AWS Personalize (which would be more accurate when generating the top three-holiday recommendations based on the user preferences), Google calendar (to access the user dates available for holiday) and more efficient APIs that provides more accurate data as Booking.com API and Skyscanner API.
